--- PÁGINA 1 ---
SIGMA-ALDRICH
SAFETY DATA SHEET
according to Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006
Version 3.0 Revision Date 31.12.2008
Print Date 22.06.2010
GENERIC EU MSDS - NO COUNTRY SPECIFIC DATA - NO OEL DATA
1. IDENTIFICATION OF THE SUBSTANCE/PREPARATION AND OF THE COMPANY/UNDERTAKING
Product name : Tetrabutylammonium tetrafluoroborate
Product Number : 217964
Brand : Aldrich
Company : Sigma-Aldrich Brasil Ltda.
Av. das Nações Unidas, 23.043
04795-100 SÍO PAULO - SP
BRAZIL
Telephone : +551137323100
Fax : +551155229895
Emergency Phone # :
2. HAZARDS IDENTIFICATION
Risk advice to man and the environment
Irritating to eyes, respiratory system and skin.
3. COMPOSITION/INFORMATION ON INGREDIENTS
Formula : C16H36BF4N
Molecular Weight : 329,27 g/mol
CAS-No. EC-No. Index-No. Classification Concentration
Tetrabutylammonium tetrafluoroborate
429-42-5 207-058-8 - Xi, R36/37/38 -
4. FIRST AID MEASURES
General advice
Consult a physician. Show this safety data sheet to the doctor in attendance.
If inhaled
If breathed in, move person into fresh air. If not breathing give artificial respiration Consult a physician.
In case of skin contact
Wash off with soap and plenty of water. Consult a physician.
In case of eye contact
Rinse thoroughly with plenty of water for at least 15 minutes and consult a physician.
If swallowed
Never give anything by mouth to an unconscious person. Rinse mouth with water. Consult a physician.
5. FIRE-FIGHTING MEASURES
Suitable extinguishing media
Use water spray, alcohol-resistant foam, dry chemical or carbon dioxide.
Aldrich - 217964 www.sigma-aldrich.com Page 1 of 4
--- PÁGINA 2 ---
Special protective equipment for fire-fighters
Wear self contained breathing apparatus for fire fighting if necessary.
6. ACCIDENTAL RELEASE MEASURES
Personal precautions
Use personal protective equipment. Avoid dust formation. Avoid breathing dust. Ensure adequate ventilation.
Environmental precautions
Do not let product enter drains.
Methods for cleaning up
Pick up and arrange disposal without creating dust. Keep in suitable, closed containers for disposal.
7. HANDLING AND STORAGE
Handling
Avoid contact with skin and eyes. Avoid formation of dust and aerosols.
Provide appropriate exhaust ventilation at places where dust is formed. Normal measures for preventive fire
protection.
Storage
Store in cool place. Keep container tightly closed in a dry and well-ventilated place.
hygroscopic
8. EXPOSURE CONTROLS/PERSONAL PROTECTION
Personal protective equipment
Respiratory protection
Where risk assessment shows air-purifying respirators are appropriate use a dust mask type N95 (US) or
type P1 (EN 143) respirator. Use respirators and components tested and approved under appropriate
government standards such as NIOSH (US) or CEN (EU).
Hand protection
The selected protective gloves have to satisfy the specifications of EU Directive 89/686/EEC and the
standard EN 374 derived from it. Handle with gloves.
Eye protection
Safety glasses
Skin and body protection
Choose body protection according to the amount and concentration of the dangerous substance at the work
place.
Hygiene measures
Handle in accordance with good industrial hygiene and safety practice. Wash hands before breaks and at
the end of workday.
9. PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PROPERTIES
Appearance
Form crystalline
Colour white
Safety data
pH no data available
Melting point 155 - 161 °C
Boiling point no data available
Flash point no data available
Aldrich - 217964 www.sigma-aldrich.com Page 2 of 4
--- PÁGINA 3 ---
Ignition temperature no data available
Lower explosion limit no data available
Upper explosion limit no data available
Water solubility no data available
10. STABILITY AND REACTIVITY
Storage stability
Stable under recommended storage conditions.
Materials to avoid
Strong oxidizing agents
Hazardous decomposition products
Hazardous decomposition products formed under fire conditions. - Carbon oxides, nitrogen oxides (NOx),
Hydrogen fluoride, Borane/boron oxides
11. TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Acute toxicity
no data available
Irritation and corrosion
no data available
Sensitisation
no data available
Chronic exposure
IARC: No component of this product present at levels greater than or equal to 0.1% is identified as
probable, possible or confirmed human carcinogen by IARC.
Signs and Symptoms of Exposure
To the best of our knowledge, the chemical, physical, and toxicological properties have not been thoroughly
investigated.
Potential Health Effects
Inhalation May be harmful if inhaled. Causes respiratory tract irritation.
Skin May be harmful if absorbed through skin. Causes skin irritation.
Eyes Causes eye irritation.
Ingestion May be harmful if swallowed.
12. ECOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Elimination information (persistence and degradability)
no data available
Ecotoxicity effects
no data available
Further information on ecology
no data available
13. DISPOSAL CONSIDERATIONS
Aldrich - 217964 www.sigma-aldrich.com Page 3 of 4
--- PÁGINA 4 ---
Product
Observe all federal, state, and local environmental regulations. Contact a licensed professional waste disposal
service to dispose of this material. Dissolve or mix the material with a combustible solvent and burn in a
chemical incinerator equipped with an afterburner and scrubber.
Contaminated packaging
Dispose of as unused product.
14. TRANSPORT INFORMATION
ADR/RID
Not dangerous goods
IMDG
Not dangerous goods
IATA
Not dangerous goods
15. REGULATORY INFORMATION
Labelling according to EC Directives
Hazard symbols
Xi Irritant
R-phrase(s)
R36/37/38 Irritating to eyes, respiratory system and skin.
S-phrase(s)
S26 In case of contact with eyes, rinse immediately with plenty of water and seek medical
advice.
S36 Wear suitable protective clothing.
16. OTHER INFORMATION
Further information
Copyright 2008 Sigma-Aldrich Co. License granted to make unlimited paper copies for internal use only.
The above information is believed to be correct but does not purport to be all inclusive and shall be used
only as a guide. The information in this document is based on the present state of our knowledge and is
applicable to the product with regard to appropriate safety precautions. It does not represent any guarantee
of the properties of the product. Sigma-Aldrich Co., shall not be held liable for any damage resulting from
handling or from contact with the above product. See reverse side of invoice or packing slip for additional
terms and conditions of sale.
Aldrich - 217964 www.sigma-aldrich.com Page 4 of 4