--- PÁGINA 1 ---
SIGMA-ALDRICH
sigma-aldrich.com
SAFETY DATA SHEET
according to Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006
Version 4.1 Revision Date 03.05.2010
Print Date 18.06.2010
GENERIC EU MSDS - NO COUNTRY SPECIFIC DATA - NO OEL DATA
1. IDENTIFICATION OF THE SUBSTANCE/MIXTURE AND OF THE COMPANY/UNDERTAKING
Product name : Mercury(II) oxide
Product Number : 276367
Brand : Sigma-Aldrich
Company : Sigma-Aldrich Brasil Ltda.
Av. das Nações Unidas, 23.043
04795-100 SÍO PAULO - SP
BRAZIL
Telephone : +551137323100
Fax : +551155229895
Emergency Phone # :
2. HAZARDS IDENTIFICATION
Classification of the substance or mixture
According to Regulation (EC) No1272/2008
Acute toxicity (Category 2)
Acute toxicity (Category 1)
Acute toxicity (Category 2)
Specific target organ toxicity - repeated exposure (Category 2)
Acute aquatic toxicity (Category 1)
Chronic aquatic toxicity (Category 1)
According to European Directive 67/548/EEC as amended.
Very toxic by inhalation, in contact with skin and if swallowed. Danger of cumulative effects. Very toxic to
aquatic organisms, may cause long-term adverse effects in the aquatic environment.
Label elements
Pictogram
Signal word Danger
Hazard statement(s)
H373 May cause damage to organs through prolonged or repeated exposure.
H330 Fatal if inhaled.
H300 Fatal if swallowed.
H310 Fatal in contact with skin.
H410 Very toxic to aquatic life with long lasting effects.
Precautionary statement(s)
P260 Do not breathe dust/fume/gas/mist/vapours/spray.
P264 Wash hands thoroughly after handling.
P273 Avoid release to the environment.
P280 Wear protective gloves/protective clothing.
P284 Wear respiratory protection.
P301 + P310 IF SWALLOWED: Immediately call a POISON CENTER or
doctor/physician.
Hazard symbol(s)
T+ Very toxic
Sigma-Aldrich - 276367 Page 1 of 6
--- PÁGINA 2 ---
N Dangerous for the environment
R-phrase(s)
R26/27/28 Very toxic by inhalation, in contact with skin and if swallowed.
R33 Danger of cumulative effects.
R50/53 Very toxic to aquatic organisms, may cause long-term adverse effects in
the aquatic environment.
S-phrase(s)
S13 Keep away from food, drink and animal feedingstuffs.
S28 After contact with skin, wash immediately with plenty of soap and water.
S45 In case of accident or if you feel unwell, seek medical advice immediately
(show the label where possible).
S60 This material and its container must be disposed of as hazardous waste.
S61 Avoid release to the environment. Refer to special instructions/ Safety data
sheets.
Other hazards - none
3. COMPOSITION/INFORMATION ON INGREDIENTS
Synonyms : Mercuric oxide
Formula : HgO
Molecular Weight : 216,59 g/mol
CAS-No. EC-No. Index-No. Classification Concentration
Mercury monoxide
21908-53-2 244-654-7 080-002-00-6 Acute Tox. 2; Acute Tox. 1; -
Acute Tox. 2; STOT RE 2;
Aquatic Acute 1; Aquatic
Chronic 1; H373, H330,
H300, H310, H410
T+, N, R26/27/28 - R33 -
R50/53
For the full text of the H-Statements mentioned in this Section, see Section 16.
4. FIRST AID MEASURES
General advice
Consult a physician. Show this safety data sheet to the doctor in attendance.
If inhaled
If breathed in, move person into fresh air. If not breathing, give artificial respiration. Consult a physician.
In case of skin contact
Wash off with soap and plenty of water. Take victim immediately to hospital. Consult a physician.
In case of eye contact
Flush eyes with water as a precaution.
If swallowed
Never give anything by mouth to an unconscious person. Rinse mouth with water. Consult a physician.
5. FIRE-FIGHTING MEASURES
Suitable extinguishing media
Use water spray, alcohol-resistant foam, dry chemical or carbon dioxide.
Special protective equipment for fire-fighters
Wear self contained breathing apparatus for fire fighting if necessary.
6. ACCIDENTAL RELEASE MEASURES
Sigma-Aldrich - 276367 Page 2 of 6
--- PÁGINA 3 ---
Personal precautions
Wear respiratory protection. Avoid dust formation. Avoid breathing vapors, mist or gas. Ensure adequate
ventilation. Evacuate personnel to safe areas. Avoid breathing dust.
Environmental precautions
Prevent further leakage or spillage if safe to do so. Do not let product enter drains. Discharge into the
environment must be avoided.
Methods and materials for containment and cleaning up
Pick up and arrange disposal without creating dust. Sweep up and shovel. Keep in suitable, closed
containers for disposal.
7. HANDLING AND STORAGE
Precautions for safe handling
Avoid contact with skin and eyes. Avoid formation of dust and aerosols.
Provide appropriate exhaust ventilation at places where dust is formed. Normal measures for preventive fire
protection.
Conditions for safe storage
Keep container tightly closed in a dry and well-ventilated place. Store in cool place.
Light sensitive.
8. EXPOSURE CONTROLS/PERSONAL PROTECTION
Personal protective equipment
Respiratory protection
Where risk assessment shows air-purifying respirators are appropriate use a full-face particle respirator
type N100 (US) or type P3 (EN 143) respirator cartridges as a backup to engineering controls. If the
respirator is the sole means of protection, use a full-face supplied air respirator. Use respirators and
components tested and approved under appropriate government standards such as NIOSH (US) or CEN
(EU).
Hand protection
Handle with gloves. Gloves must be inspected prior to use. Use proper glove removal technique (without
touching glove's outer surface) to avoid skin contact with this product. Dispose of contaminated gloves
after use in accordance with applicable laws and good laboratory practices. Wash and dry hands.
The selected protective gloves have to satisfy the specifications of EU Directive 89/686/EEC and the
standard EN 374 derived from it.
Eye protection
Face shield and safety glasses Use equipment for eye protection tested and approved under appropriate
government standards such as NIOSH (US) or EN 166(EU).
Skin and body protection
Complete suit protecting against chemicals, The type of protective equipment must be selected according
to the concentration and amount of the dangerous substance at the specific workplace.
Hygiene measures
Avoid contact with skin, eyes and clothing. Wash hands before breaks and immediately after handling the
product.
9. PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PROPERTIES
Appearance
Form powder
Safety data
pH no data available
Melting point 500 °C - dec.
Boiling point no data available
Sigma-Aldrich - 276367 Page 3 of 6
--- PÁGINA 4 ---
Flash point not applicable
Ignition temperature no data available
Lower explosion limit no data available
Upper explosion limit no data available
Water solubility no data available
10. STABILITY AND REACTIVITY
Chemical stability
Stable under recommended storage conditions.
Conditions to avoid
no data available
Materials to avoid
Hypophosphoric acid, fuels, and combustible materials (wood, paper, oil, etc.). Explosive with sulfur. Forms
explosive mercury fulminate fulminate with alcohols. Forms heat-and shock-sensitive explosive yellow
precipitate with phosphine. Solutions of mercuric nitrate form heat- or shock-sensitive acetylide with acetylene,
which is explosive on contact with sulfuric acid. Explosive mixture with potassium cyanide when heated under
confinement. Exothermic reaction with possible violent reaction with unsaturated or aromatic hydrocarbons.,
Reducing agents
Hazardous decomposition products
Hazardous decomposition products formed under fire conditions. - Mercury/mercury oxides.
11. TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Acute toxicity
Skin corrosion/irritation
no data available
Serious eye damage/eye irritation
no data available
Respiratory or skin sensitization
no data available
Germ cell mutagenicity
no data available
Carcinogenicity
IARC: No component of this product present at levels greater than or equal to 0.1% is identified as
probable, possible or confirmed human carcinogen by IARC.
IARC: 3 - Group 3: Not classifiable as to its carcinogenicity to humans (Mercury monoxide)
Reproductive toxicity
Laboratory experiments have shown teratogenic effects.
Reproductive toxicity - rat - Oral
Effects on Fertility: Post-implantation mortality (e.g., dead and/or resorbed implants per total number of
implants).
Overexposure may cause reproductive disorder(s) based on tests with laboratory animals.
Developmental Toxicity - rat - Oral
Effects on Embryo or Fetus: Fetotoxicity (except death, e.g., stunted fetus). Specific Developmental
Abnormalities: Eye, ear.
Developmental Toxicity - mouse - Oral
Sigma-Aldrich - 276367 Page 4 of 6
--- PÁGINA 5 ---
Effects on Embryo or Fetus: Fetal death.
Developmental Toxicity - mouse - Oral
Specific Developmental Abnormalities: Other developmental abnormalities.
Specific target organ toxicity - single exposure
no data available
Specific target organ toxicity - repeated exposure
no data available
Aspiration hazard
no data available
Potential health effects
Inhalation May be fatal if inhaled. May cause respiratory tract irritation.
Ingestion May be fatal if swallowed.
Skin May be fatal if absorbed through skin. May cause skin irritation.
Eyes May cause eye irritation.
Signs and Symptoms of Exposure
Liver injury may occur., Kidney injury may occur., Nausea, Vomiting, Diarrhoea, Tremors, Salivation
Additional Information
RTECS: OW8750000
12. ECOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Toxicity
no data available
Persistence and degradability
no data available
Bioaccumulative potential
no data available
Mobility in soil
no data available
PBT and vPvB assessment
no data available
Other adverse effects
Toxic to aquatic life with long lasting effects.
no data available
13. DISPOSAL CONSIDERATIONS
Product
Contact a licensed professional waste disposal service to dispose of this material. Dissolve or mix the
material with a combustible solvent and burn in a chemical incinerator equipped with an afterburner and
scrubber. Offer surplus and non-recyclable solutions to a licensed disposal company.
Contaminated packaging
Dispose of as unused product.
14. TRANSPORT INFORMATION
ADR/RID
UN-Number: 1641 Class: 6.1 Packing group: II
Proper shipping name: MERCURY OXIDE
IMDG
UN-Number: 1641 Class: 6.1 Packing group: II EMS-No: F-A, S-A
Proper shipping name: MERCURY OXIDE
Marine pollutant: Marine pollutant
Sigma-Aldrich - 276367 Page 5 of 6
--- PÁGINA 6 ---
IATA
UN-Number: 1641 Class: 6.1 Packing group: II
Proper shipping name: Mercury oxide
15. REGULATORY INFORMATION
This safety datasheet complies with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006.
16. OTHER INFORMATION
Text of H-code(s) and R-phrase(s) mentioned in Section 3
Acute Tox. Acute toxicity
Aquatic Acute Acute aquatic toxicity
Aquatic Chronic Chronic aquatic toxicity
H300 Fatal if swallowed.
H310 Fatal in contact with skin.
H330 Fatal if inhaled.
H373 May cause damage to organs through prolonged or repeated exposure.
H410 Very toxic to aquatic life with long lasting effects.
STOT RE Specific target organ toxicity - repeated exposure
N Dangerous for the environment
T+ Very toxic
R26/27/28 Very toxic by inhalation, in contact with skin and if swallowed.
R33 Danger of cumulative effects.
R50/53 Very toxic to aquatic organisms, may cause long-term adverse effects in the aquatic
environment.
Further information
Copyright 2010 Sigma-Aldrich Co. License granted to make unlimited paper copies for internal use only.
The above information is believed to be correct but does not purport to be all inclusive and shall be used
only as a guide. The information in this document is based on the present state of our knowledge and is
applicable to the product with regard to appropriate safety precautions. It does not represent any guarantee
of the properties of the product. Sigma-Aldrich Co., shall not be held liable for any damage resulting from
handling or from contact with the above product. See reverse side of invoice or packing slip for additional
terms and conditions of sale.
Sigma-Aldrich - 276367 Page 6 of 6