--- PÁGINA 1 ---
SIGMA-ALDRICH
sigma-aldrich.com
SAFETY DATA SHEET
according to Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006
Version 4.0 Revision Date 27.02.2010
Print Date 03.12.2010
GENERIC EU MSDS - NO COUNTRY SPECIFIC DATA - NO OEL DATA
1. IDENTIFICATION OF THE SUBSTANCE/MIXTURE AND OF THE COMPANY/UNDERTAKING
Product name : PTIO
Product Number : P5084
Brand : Sigma
Company : Sigma-Aldrich Brasil Ltda.
Av. das Nações Unidas, 23.043
04795-100 SÍO PAULO - SP
BRAZIL
Telephone : +551137323100
Fax : +551155229895
Emergency Phone # :
2. HAZARDS IDENTIFICATION
Classification of the substance or mixture
According to Regulation (EC) No1272/2008
Skin irritation (Category 2)
Eye irritation (Category 2)
Specific target organ toxicity - single exposure (Category 3)
According to European Directive 67/548/EEC as amended.
Irritating to eyes, respiratory system and skin.
Label elements
Pictogram
Signal word Warning
Hazard statement(s)
H315 Causes skin irritation.
H319 Causes serious eye irritation.
H335 May cause respiratory irritation.
Precautionary statement(s)
P261 Avoid breathing dust/fume/gas/mist/vapours/spray.
P305 + P351 + P338 IF IN EYES: Rinse cautiously with water for several minutes. Remove
contact lenses, if present and easy to do. Continue rinsing.
Hazard symbol(s)
Xi Irritant
R-phrase(s)
R36/37/38 Irritating to eyes, respiratory system and skin.
S-phrase(s)
S26 In case of contact with eyes, rinse immediately with plenty of water and
seek medical advice.
S36 Wear suitable protective clothing.
Other hazards - none
Sigma - P5084 Page 1 of 5
--- PÁGINA 2 ---
3. COMPOSITION/INFORMATION ON INGREDIENTS
Synonyms : 2-Phenyl-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl 3-oxide
Formula : C13H17N2O2
Molecular Weight : 233,29 g/mol
CAS-No. EC-No. Index-No. Classification Concentration
PTIO
18390-00-6 - - Skin Irrit. 2; Eye Irrit. 2; STOT -
SE 3; H315, H319, H335
Xi, R36/37/38
For the full text of the H-Statements mentioned in this Section, see Section 16.
4. FIRST AID MEASURES
General advice
Consult a physician. Show this safety data sheet to the doctor in attendance.
If inhaled
If breathed in, move person into fresh air. If not breathing give artificial respiration Consult a physician.
In case of skin contact
Wash off with soap and plenty of water. Consult a physician.
In case of eye contact
Rinse thoroughly with plenty of water for at least 15 minutes and consult a physician.
If swallowed
Never give anything by mouth to an unconscious person. Rinse mouth with water. Consult a physician.
5. FIRE-FIGHTING MEASURES
Suitable extinguishing media
Use water spray, alcohol-resistant foam, dry chemical or carbon dioxide.
Special protective equipment for fire-fighters
Wear self contained breathing apparatus for fire fighting if necessary.
6. ACCIDENTAL RELEASE MEASURES
Personal precautions
Use personal protective equipment. Avoid dust formation. Avoid breathing dust. Ensure adequate ventilation.
Environmental precautions
Do not let product enter drains.
Methods and materials for containment and cleaning up
Pick up and arrange disposal without creating dust. Keep in suitable, closed containers for disposal.
7. HANDLING AND STORAGE
Precautions for safe handling
Avoid contact with skin and eyes. Avoid formation of dust and aerosols.
Provide appropriate exhaust ventilation at places where dust is formed. Normal measures for preventive fire
protection.
Conditions for safe storage
Store in cool place. Keep container tightly closed in a dry and well-ventilated place.
Recommended storage temperature: 2 - 8 °C
Sigma - P5084 Page 2 of 5
--- PÁGINA 3 ---
8. EXPOSURE CONTROLS/PERSONAL PROTECTION
Personal protective equipment
Respiratory protection
Where risk assessment shows air-purifying respirators are appropriate use a dust mask type N95 (US) or
type P1 (EN 143) respirator. Use respirators and components tested and approved under appropriate
government standards such as NIOSH (US) or CEN (EU).
Hand protection
The selected protective gloves have to satisfy the specifications of EU Directive 89/686/EEC and the
standard EN 374 derived from it.
Handle with gloves.
Eye protection
Safety glasses with side-shields conforming to EN166
Skin and body protection
Choose body protection according to the amount and concentration of the dangerous substance at the
work place.
Hygiene measures
Handle in accordance with good industrial hygiene and safety practice. Wash hands before breaks and at
the end of workday.
9. PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PROPERTIES
Appearance
Form solid
Safety data
pH no data available
Melting point no data available
Boiling point no data available
Flash point no data available
Ignition temperature no data available
Lower explosion limit no data available
Upper explosion limit no data available
Water solubility no data available
10. STABILITY AND REACTIVITY
Chemical stability
Stable under recommended storage conditions.
Conditions to avoid
no data available
Materials to avoid
Strong oxidizing agents
Hazardous decomposition products
Hazardous decomposition products formed under fire conditions. - Carbon oxides, nitrogen oxides (NOx)
11. TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Acute toxicity
no data available
Skin corrosion/irritation
Sigma - P5084 Page 3 of 5
--- PÁGINA 4 ---
no data available
Serious eye damage/eye irritation
no data available
Respiratory or skin sensitization
no data available
Germ cell mutagenicity
no data available
Carcinogenicity
IARC: No component of this product present at levels greater than or equal to 0.1% is identified as
probable, possible or confirmed human carcinogen by IARC.
Reproductive toxicity
no data available
Specific target organ toxicity - single exposure
Inhalation - May cause respiratory irritation.
Specific target organ toxicity - repeated exposure
no data available
Aspiration hazard
no data available
Potential health effects
Inhalation May be harmful if inhaled. Causes respiratory tract irritation.
Ingestion May be harmful if swallowed.
Skin May be harmful if absorbed through skin. Causes skin irritation.
Eyes Causes eye irritation.
Signs and Symptoms of Exposure
To the best of our knowledge, the chemical, physical, and toxicological properties have not been thoroughly
investigated.
Additional Information
RTECS: no data available
12. ECOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Toxicity
no data available
Persistence and degradability
no data available
Bioaccumulative potential
no data available
Mobility in soil
no data available
PBT and vPvB assessment
no data available
Other adverse effects
no data available
13. DISPOSAL CONSIDERATIONS
Product
Observe all federal, state, and local environmental regulations. Contact a licensed professional waste
disposal service to dispose of this material. Dissolve or mix the material with a combustible solvent and burn
in a chemical incinerator equipped with an afterburner and scrubber.
Sigma - P5084 Page 4 of 5
--- PÁGINA 5 ---
Contaminated packaging
Dispose of as unused product.
14. TRANSPORT INFORMATION
ADR/RID
Not dangerous goods
IMDG
Not dangerous goods
IATA
Not dangerous goods
15. REGULATORY INFORMATION
This safety datasheet complies with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006.
16. OTHER INFORMATION
Text of H-code(s) and R-phrase(s) mentioned in Section 3
Eye Irrit. Eye irritation
H315 Causes skin irritation.
H319 Causes serious eye irritation.
H335 May cause respiratory irritation.
Skin Irrit. Skin irritation
STOT SE Specific target organ toxicity - single exposure
Xi Irritant
R36/37/38 Irritating to eyes, respiratory system and skin.
Further information
Copyright 2010 Sigma-Aldrich Co. License granted to make unlimited paper copies for internal use only.
The above information is believed to be correct but does not purport to be all inclusive and shall be used
only as a guide. The information in this document is based on the present state of our knowledge and is
applicable to the product with regard to appropriate safety precautions. It does not represent any guarantee
of the properties of the product. Sigma-Aldrich Co., shall not be held liable for any damage resulting from
handling or from contact with the above product. See reverse side of invoice or packing slip for additional
terms and conditions of sale.
Sigma - P5084 Page 5 of 5