--- PÁGINA 1 ---
SIGMA-ALDRICH
sigma-aldrich.com
SAFETY DATA SHEET
according to Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006
Version 4.0 Revision Date 27.05.2010
Print Date 24.01.2011
GENERIC EU MSDS - NO COUNTRY SPECIFIC DATA - NO OEL DATA
1. IDENTIFICATION OF THE SUBSTANCE/MIXTURE AND OF THE COMPANY/UNDERTAKING
Product name : Silica gel 60 ADAMANT™ on TLC plates
Product Number : 01977
Brand : Fluka
Company : Sigma-Aldrich Brasil Ltda.
Av. das Nações Unidas, 23.043
04795-100 SÍO PAULO - SP
BRAZIL
Telephone : +551137323100
Fax : +551155229895
Emergency Phone # :
2. HAZARDS IDENTIFICATION
Classification of the substance or mixture
Not a dangerous substance according to GHS.
This substance is not classified as dangerous according to Directive 67/548/EEC.
Label elements
The product does not need to be labelled in accordance with EC directives or respective national laws.
Other hazards - none
3. COMPOSITION/INFORMATION ON INGREDIENTS
CAS-No. EC-No. Index-No. Classification Concentration
Silica gel 60 ADAMANT™ on TLC plates
- - - - -
4. FIRST AID MEASURES
If inhaled
If breathed in, move person into fresh air. If not breathing, give artificial respiration.
In case of skin contact
Wash off with soap and plenty of water.
In case of eye contact
Flush eyes with water as a precaution.
If swallowed
Never give anything by mouth to an unconscious person. Rinse mouth with water.
5. FIRE-FIGHTING MEASURES
Suitable extinguishing media
Use water spray, alcohol-resistant foam, dry chemical or carbon dioxide.
Special protective equipment for fire-fighters
Wear self contained breathing apparatus for fire fighting if necessary.
Fluka - 01977 Page 1 of 4
--- PÁGINA 2 ---
6. ACCIDENTAL RELEASE MEASURES
Personal precautions
Avoid dust formation. Avoid breathing vapors, mist or gas.
Environmental precautions
Do not let product enter drains.
Methods and materials for containment and cleaning up
Sweep up and shovel. Keep in suitable, closed containers for disposal.
7. HANDLING AND STORAGE
Precautions for safe handling
Provide appropriate exhaust ventilation at places where dust is formed. Normal measures for preventive fire
protection.
Conditions for safe storage
Keep container tightly closed in a dry and well-ventilated place. Store in cool place.
8. EXPOSURE CONTROLS/PERSONAL PROTECTION
Personal protective equipment
Respiratory protection
Respiratory protection is not required. Where protection from nuisance levels of dusts are desired, use
type N95 (US) or type P1 (EN 143) dust masks. Use respirators and components tested and approved
under appropriate government standards such as NIOSH (US) or CEN (EU).
Hand protection
Handle with gloves. Gloves must be inspected prior to use. Use proper glove removal technique (without
touching glove's outer surface) to avoid skin contact with this product. Dispose of contaminated gloves
after use in accordance with applicable laws and good laboratory practices. Wash and dry hands.
The selected protective gloves have to satisfy the specifications of EU Directive 89/686/EEC and the
standard EN 374 derived from it.
Eye protection
Use equipment for eye protection tested and approved under appropriate government standards such as
NIOSH (US) or EN 166(EU).
Skin and body protection
Choose body protection in relation to its type, to the concentration and amount of dangerous substances,
and to the specific work-place., The type of protective equipment must be selected according to the
concentration and amount of the dangerous substance at the specific workplace.
Hygiene measures
General industrial hygiene practice.
9. PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PROPERTIES
Appearance
Form solid
Safety data
pH no data available
Melting point no data available
Boiling point no data available
Flash point no data available
Ignition temperature no data available
Lower explosion limit no data available
Fluka - 01977 Page 2 of 4
--- PÁGINA 3 ---
Upper explosion limit no data available
Water solubility no data available
10. STABILITY AND REACTIVITY
Chemical stability
Stable under recommended storage conditions.
Conditions to avoid
no data available
Materials to avoid
Strong acids, Hydrogen fluoride, Oxidizing agents, Oxygen difluoride, Chlorine trifluoride, Ammonia, Acetylene
Hazardous decomposition products
Hazardous decomposition products formed under fire conditions. - Nature of decomposition products not
known.
11. TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Acute toxicity
no data available
Skin corrosion/irritation
no data available
Serious eye damage/eye irritation
no data available
Respiratory or skin sensitization
no data available
Germ cell mutagenicity
no data available
Carcinogenicity
IARC: No component of this product present at levels greater than or equal to 0.1% is identified as
probable, possible or confirmed human carcinogen by IARC.
Reproductive toxicity
no data available
Specific target organ toxicity - single exposure
no data available
Specific target organ toxicity - repeated exposure
no data available
Aspiration hazard
no data available
Potential health effects
Inhalation May be harmful if inhaled. May cause respiratory tract irritation.
Ingestion May be harmful if swallowed.
Skin May be harmful if absorbed through skin. May cause skin irritation.
Eyes May cause eye irritation.
Signs and Symptoms of Exposure
To the best of our knowledge, the chemical, physical, and toxicological properties have not been thoroughly
investigated.
Additional Information
RTECS: no data available
12. ECOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Fluka - 01977 Page 3 of 4
--- PÁGINA 4 ---
Toxicity
no data available
Persistence and degradability
no data available
Bioaccumulative potential
no data available
Mobility in soil
no data available
PBT and vPvB assessment
no data available
Other adverse effects
no data available
13. DISPOSAL CONSIDERATIONS
Product
Offer surplus and non-recyclable solutions to a licensed disposal company.
Contaminated packaging
Dispose of as unused product.
14. TRANSPORT INFORMATION
ADR/RID
Not dangerous goods
IMDG
Not dangerous goods
IATA
Not dangerous goods
15. REGULATORY INFORMATION
This safety datasheet complies with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006.
16. OTHER INFORMATION
Further information
Copyright 2010 Sigma-Aldrich Co. License granted to make unlimited paper copies for internal use only.
The above information is believed to be correct but does not purport to be all inclusive and shall be used
only as a guide. The information in this document is based on the present state of our knowledge and is
applicable to the product with regard to appropriate safety precautions. It does not represent any guarantee
of the properties of the product. Sigma-Aldrich Co., shall not be held liable for any damage resulting from
handling or from contact with the above product. See reverse side of invoice or packing slip for additional
terms and conditions of sale.
Fluka - 01977 Page 4 of 4