--- PÁGINA 1 ---
SIGMA-ALDRICH
sigma-aldrich.com
SAFETY DATA SHEET
according to Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006
Version 4.1 Revision Date 24.05.2010
Print Date 25.01.2011
GENERIC EU MSDS - NO COUNTRY SPECIFIC DATA - NO OEL DATA
1. IDENTIFICATION OF THE SUBSTANCE/MIXTURE AND OF THE COMPANY/UNDERTAKING
Product name : Sodium diethyldithiocarbamate trihydrate
Product Number : 228680
Brand : Sigma-Aldrich
Company : Sigma-Aldrich Brasil Ltda.
Av. das Nações Unidas, 23.043
04795-100 SÍO PAULO - SP
BRAZIL
Telephone : +551137323100
Fax : +551155229895
Emergency Phone # :
2. HAZARDS IDENTIFICATION
Classification of the substance or mixture
According to Regulation (EC) No1272/2008
Acute toxicity, Oral (Category 4)
Skin irritation (Category 2)
Serious eye damage (Category 1)
According to European Directive 67/548/EEC as amended.
Harmful if swallowed. Irritating to skin. Risk of serious damage to eyes.
Label elements
Pictogram
Signal word Danger
Hazard statement(s)
H302 Harmful if swallowed.
H315 Causes skin irritation.
H318 Causes serious eye damage.
Precautionary statement(s)
P280 Wear protective gloves/eye protection/face protection.
P305 + P351 + P338 IF IN EYES: Rinse cautiously with water for several minutes. Remove
contact lenses, if present and easy to do. Continue rinsing.
Hazard symbol(s)
Xn Harmful
R-phrase(s)
R22 Harmful if swallowed.
R38 Irritating to skin.
R41 Risk of serious damage to eyes.
S-phrase(s)
S26 In case of contact with eyes, rinse immediately with plenty of water and
seek medical advice.
S39 Wear eye/face protection.
Sigma-Aldrich - 228680 Page 1 of 6
--- PÁGINA 2 ---
Other hazards - none
3. COMPOSITION/INFORMATION ON INGREDIENTS
Synonyms : Diethyldithiocarbamic acidsodium salt
Cupral
Formula : C5H10NNaS2 · 3H2O
Molecular Weight : 225,31 g/mol
CAS-No. EC-No. Index-No. Classification Concentration
Sodium diethyldithiocarbamate trihydrate
20624-25-3 205-710-6 - Acute Tox. 4; Skin Irrit. 2; Eye -
Dam. 1; H302, H315, H318
Xn, R22 - R38 - R41
For the full text of the H-Statements mentioned in this Section, see Section 16.
4. FIRST AID MEASURES
General advice
Consult a physician. Show this safety data sheet to the doctor in attendance.
If inhaled
If breathed in, move person into fresh air. If not breathing, give artificial respiration. Consult a physician.
In case of skin contact
Wash off with soap and plenty of water. Consult a physician.
In case of eye contact
Rinse thoroughly with plenty of water for at least 15 minutes and consult a physician.
If swallowed
Never give anything by mouth to an unconscious person. Rinse mouth with water. Consult a physician.
5. FIRE-FIGHTING MEASURES
Suitable extinguishing media
Use water spray, alcohol-resistant foam, dry chemical or carbon dioxide.
Special protective equipment for fire-fighters
Wear self contained breathing apparatus for fire fighting if necessary.
6. ACCIDENTAL RELEASE MEASURES
Personal precautions
Use personal protective equipment. Avoid dust formation. Avoid breathing vapors, mist or gas. Ensure
adequate ventilation. Evacuate personnel to safe areas. Avoid breathing dust.
Environmental precautions
Do not let product enter drains.
Methods and materials for containment and cleaning up
Pick up and arrange disposal without creating dust. Sweep up and shovel. Keep in suitable, closed
containers for disposal.
7. HANDLING AND STORAGE
Precautions for safe handling
Avoid contact with skin and eyes. Avoid formation of dust and aerosols.
Provide appropriate exhaust ventilation at places where dust is formed. Normal measures for preventive fire
protection.
Conditions for safe storage
Keep container tightly closed in a dry and well-ventilated place. Store in cool place.
Sigma-Aldrich - 228680 Page 2 of 6
--- PÁGINA 3 ---
hygroscopic Store under inert gas.
8. EXPOSURE CONTROLS/PERSONAL PROTECTION
Personal protective equipment
Respiratory protection
Where risk assessment shows air-purifying respirators are appropriate use a full-face particle respirator
type N100 (US) or type P3 (EN 143) respirator cartridges as a backup to engineering controls. If the
respirator is the sole means of protection, use a full-face supplied air respirator. Use respirators and
components tested and approved under appropriate government standards such as NIOSH (US) or CEN
(EU).
Hand protection
The selected protective gloves have to satisfy the specifications of EU Directive 89/686/EEC and the
standard EN 374 derived from it.
Handle with gloves. Gloves must be inspected prior to use. Use proper glove removal technique (without
touching glove's outer surface) to avoid skin contact with this product. Dispose of contaminated gloves
after use in accordance with applicable laws and good laboratory practices. Wash and dry hands.
Eye protection
Face shield and safety glasses Use equipment for eye protection tested and approved under appropriate
government standards such as NIOSH (US) or EN 166(EU).
Skin and body protection
Complete suit protecting against chemicals, The type of protective equipment must be selected according
to the concentration and amount of the dangerous substance at the specific workplace.
Hygiene measures
Handle in accordance with good industrial hygiene and safety practice. Wash hands before breaks and at
the end of workday.
9. PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PROPERTIES
Appearance
Form solid
Safety data
pH no data available
Melting point 95 - 98,5 °C - lit.
Boiling point no data available
Flash point no data available
Ignition temperature no data available
Lower explosion limit no data available
Upper explosion limit no data available
Density 1,100 g/cm3
Water solubility soluble
Relative vapour 5,9
density
10. STABILITY AND REACTIVITY
Chemical stability
Stable under recommended storage conditions.
Conditions to avoid
no data available
Sigma-Aldrich - 228680 Page 3 of 6
--- PÁGINA 4 ---
Materials to avoid
Strong oxidizing agents
Hazardous decomposition products
Hazardous decomposition products formed under fire conditions. - Carbon oxides, nitrogen oxides (NOx),
Sulphur oxides
11. TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Acute toxicity
LD50 Oral - rat - 1.500 mg/kg
Skin corrosion/irritation
no data available
Serious eye damage/eye irritation
no data available
Respiratory or skin sensitization
no data available
Germ cell mutagenicity
Genotoxicity in vitro - rat - Liver
DNA damage
Genotoxicity in vitro - rat - lymphocyte
DNA inhibition
Genotoxicity in vitro - Hamster - ovary
Cytogenetic analysis
Carcinogenicity
IARC: No component of this product present at levels greater than or equal to 0.1% is identified as
probable, possible or confirmed human carcinogen by IARC.
Reproductive toxicity
no data available
Specific target organ toxicity - single exposure
no data available
Specific target organ toxicity - repeated exposure
no data available
Aspiration hazard
no data available
Potential health effects
Inhalation May be harmful if inhaled. Causes respiratory tract irritation.
Ingestion Harmful if swallowed.
Skin May be harmful if absorbed through skin. Causes skin irritation.
Eyes Causes eye burns.
Signs and Symptoms of Exposure
To the best of our knowledge, the chemical, physical, and toxicological properties have not been thoroughly
investigated., Some dithiocarbamates have been reported to have teratogenic and/or carcinogenic potential
and to affect male reproductive capacity. Exposure to thiocarbamates or thiurams and the intake of even small
amounts of ethyl alcohol results in flushing, breathing difficulty, nausea, vomiting, and low blood pressure.
Sensitization to alcohol may last as long as 6 to 14 days after exposure to these compounds. A serious toxic
interaction has been observed in rats fed tetraethylthiuram and then exposed to vapors of 1,2-dibromoethane.
NIOSH stated that similar toxic interactions may occur between chemicals structurally related to
tetraethylthiuram and other halogenated hydrocarbons.
Additional Information
RTECS: EZ6550000
Sigma-Aldrich - 228680 Page 4 of 6
--- PÁGINA 5 ---
12. ECOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Toxicity
no data available
Persistence and degradability
no data available
Bioaccumulative potential
no data available
Mobility in soil
no data available
PBT and vPvB assessment
no data available
Other adverse effects
no data available
13. DISPOSAL CONSIDERATIONS
Product
Offer surplus and non-recyclable solutions to a licensed disposal company. Contact a licensed professional
waste disposal service to dispose of this material. Dissolve or mix the material with a combustible solvent
and burn in a chemical incinerator equipped with an afterburner and scrubber.
Contaminated packaging
Dispose of as unused product.
14. TRANSPORT INFORMATION
ADR/RID
Not dangerous goods
IMDG
Not dangerous goods
IATA
Not dangerous goods
15. REGULATORY INFORMATION
This safety datasheet complies with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006.
16. OTHER INFORMATION
Text of H-code(s) and R-phrase(s) mentioned in Section 3
Acute Tox. Acute toxicity
Eye Dam. Serious eye damage
H302 Harmful if swallowed.
H315 Causes skin irritation.
H318 Causes serious eye damage.
Skin Irrit. Skin irritation
Xn Harmful
R22 Harmful if swallowed.
R38 Irritating to skin.
R41 Risk of serious damage to eyes.
Further information
Copyright 2010 Sigma-Aldrich Co. License granted to make unlimited paper copies for internal use only.
Sigma-Aldrich - 228680 Page 5 of 6
--- PÁGINA 6 ---
The above information is believed to be correct but does not purport to be all inclusive and shall be used
only as a guide. The information in this document is based on the present state of our knowledge and is
applicable to the product with regard to appropriate safety precautions. It does not represent any guarantee
of the properties of the product. Sigma-Aldrich Co., shall not be held liable for any damage resulting from
handling or from contact with the above product. See reverse side of invoice or packing slip for additional
terms and conditions of sale.
Sigma-Aldrich - 228680 Page 6 of 6