--- PÁGINA 1 ---
SIGMA-ALDRICH
SAFETY DATA SHEET
according to Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006
Version 3.1 Revision Date 09.01.2009
Print Date 09.06.2010
GENERIC EU MSDS - NO COUNTRY SPECIFIC DATA - NO OEL DATA
1. IDENTIFICATION OF THE SUBSTANCE/PREPARATION AND OF THE COMPANY/UNDERTAKING
Product name : Trimethyl phosphite
Product Number : 240907
Brand : Aldrich
Company : Sigma-Aldrich Brasil Ltda.
Av. das Nações Unidas, 23.043
04795-100 SÍO PAULO - SP
BRAZIL
Telephone : +551137323100
Fax : +551155229895
Emergency Phone # :
2. HAZARDS IDENTIFICATION
Risk advice to man and the environment
Flammable. Harmful if swallowed. Irritating to eyes, respiratory system and skin.
3. COMPOSITION/INFORMATION ON INGREDIENTS
Synonyms : Methyl phosphite
Formula : C3H9O3P
Molecular Weight : 124,08 g/mol
CAS-No. EC-No. Index-No. Classification Concentration
Trimethyl phosphite
121-45-9 204-471-5 - Xn, R10 - R22 - R36/37/38 -
4. FIRST AID MEASURES
General advice
Consult a physician. Show this safety data sheet to the doctor in attendance.
If inhaled
If breathed in, move person into fresh air. If not breathing give artificial respiration Consult a physician.
In case of skin contact
Wash off with soap and plenty of water. Consult a physician.
In case of eye contact
Rinse thoroughly with plenty of water for at least 15 minutes and consult a physician.
If swallowed
Do NOT induce vomiting. Never give anything by mouth to an unconscious person. Rinse mouth with water.
Consult a physician.
Aldrich - 240907 www.sigma-aldrich.com Page 1 of 5
--- PÁGINA 2 ---
5. FIRE-FIGHTING MEASURES
Suitable extinguishing media
For small (incipient) fires, use media such as "alcohol" foam, dry chemical, or carbon dioxide. For large fires,
apply water from as far as possible. Use very large quantities (flooding) of water applied as a mist or spray;
solid streams of water may be ineffective. Cool all affected containers with flooding quantities of water.
Special protective equipment for fire-fighters
Wear self contained breathing apparatus for fire fighting if necessary.
Further information
Use water spray to cool unopened containers.
6. ACCIDENTAL RELEASE MEASURES
Personal precautions
Use personal protective equipment. Avoid breathing vapors, mist or gas. Ensure adequate ventilation. Remove
all sources of ignition. Beware of vapours accumulating to form explosive concentrations. Vapours can
accumulate in low areas.
Environmental precautions
Do not let product enter drains.
Methods for cleaning up
Contain spillage, and then collect with non-combustible absorbent material, (e.g. sand, earth, diatomaceous
earth, vermiculite) and place in container for disposal according to local / national regulations (see section 13).
Keep in suitable, closed containers for disposal.
7. HANDLING AND STORAGE
Handling
Avoid contact with skin and eyes. Avoid inhalation of vapour or mist.
Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking. Take measures to prevent the build up of electrostatic
charge.
Storage
Store in cool place. Keep container tightly closed in a dry and well-ventilated place.
8. EXPOSURE CONTROLS/PERSONAL PROTECTION
Personal protective equipment
Respiratory protection
Where risk assessment shows air-purifying respirators are appropriate use a full-face respirator with multi-
purpose combination (US) or type ABEK (EN 14387) respirator cartridges as a backup to engineering
controls. If the respirator is the sole means of protection, use a full-face supplied air respirator. Use
respirators and components tested and approved under appropriate government standards such as NIOSH
(US) or CEN (EU).
Hand protection
The selected protective gloves have to satisfy the specifications of EU Directive 89/686/EEC and the
standard EN 374 derived from it. Handle with gloves.
Eye protection
Safety glasses
Skin and body protection
Choose body protection according to the amount and concentration of the dangerous substance at the work
place.
Hygiene measures
Handle in accordance with good industrial hygiene and safety practice. Wash hands before breaks and at
the end of workday.
Aldrich - 240907 www.sigma-aldrich.com Page 2 of 5
--- PÁGINA 3 ---
9. PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PROPERTIES
Appearance
Form liquid
Colour colourless
Safety data
pH no data available
Melting point -78 °C
Boiling point 111 - 112 °C
Flash point 28 °C - closed cup
Ignition temperature no data available
Lower explosion limit no data available
Upper explosion limit no data available
Vapour pressure 23 hPa at 20 °C
Density 1,052 g/mL at 25 °C
Water solubility no data available
Relative vapour 4,28
density - (Air = 1.0)
10. STABILITY AND REACTIVITY
Storage stability
Stable under recommended storage conditions.
Conditions to avoid
Thermal decomposition of this product in combination with trimethylol propane, trimethylol propane derived
products or their corresponding alkane analogs may result in the production of bicyclic phosphates or
phosphites. Bicyclic phosphates and phosphites are products that display acute neurotoxic properties such as
characteristic convulsive seizures Do not allow water to enter container.
Heat, flames and sparks.
Materials to avoid
Oxidizing agents, Strong bases
Hazardous decomposition products
Hazardous decomposition products formed under fire conditions. - Carbon oxides, Oxides of phosphorus
11. TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Acute toxicity
LD50 Oral - rat - 1.600 mg/kg
LD50 Dermal - rabbit - 2.600 mg/kg
Irritation and corrosion
no data available
Sensitisation
no data available
Chronic exposure
IARC: No component of this product present at levels greater than or equal to 0.1% is identified as
Aldrich - 240907 www.sigma-aldrich.com Page 3 of 5
--- PÁGINA 4 ---
probable, possible or confirmed human carcinogen by IARC.
Developmental Toxicity - rat - Oral
Specific Developmental Abnormalities: Central nervous system. Specific Developmental Abnormalities:
Craniofacial (including nose and tongue). Specific Developmental Abnormalities: Musculoskeletal system.
Developmental Toxicity - rat - Oral
Specific Developmental Abnormalities: Urogenital system. Specific Developmental Abnormalities: Homeostasis
Signs and Symptoms of Exposure
Cough, Shortness of breath, Headache, Nausea, Vomiting, Aspiration or inhalation may cause chemical
pneumonitis., To the best of our knowledge, the chemical, physical, and toxicological properties have not been
thoroughly investigated.
Potential Health Effects
Inhalation May be harmful if inhaled. Causes respiratory tract irritation.
Skin May be harmful if absorbed through skin. Causes skin irritation.
Eyes Causes eye irritation.
Ingestion Harmful if swallowed.
Target Organs Nerves., Eyes, Liver, Lungs, Reproductive system.,
Additional Information
RTECS: TH1400000
12. ECOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Elimination information (persistence and degradability)
no data available
Ecotoxicity effects
no data available
Further information on ecology
no data available
13. DISPOSAL CONSIDERATIONS
Product
Burn in a chemical incinerator equipped with an afterburner and scrubber but exert extra care in igniting as this
material is highly flammable. This combustible material may be burned in a chemical incinerator equipped with
an afterburner and scrubber. Observe all federal, state, and local environmental regulations. Contact a licensed
professional waste disposal service to dispose of this material.
Contaminated packaging
Dispose of as unused product.
14. TRANSPORT INFORMATION
ADR/RID
UN-Number: 2329 Class: 3 Packing group: III
Proper shipping name: TRIMETHYL PHOSPHITE
IMDG
UN-Number: 2329 Class: 3 Packing group: III EMS-No: F-E, S-D
Proper shipping name: TRIMETHYL PHOSPHITE
Marine pollutant: No
IATA
UN-Number: 2329 Class: 3 Packing group: III
Proper shipping name: Trimethyl phosphite
Aldrich - 240907 www.sigma-aldrich.com Page 4 of 5
--- PÁGINA 5 ---
15. REGULATORY INFORMATION
Labelling according to EC Directives
Hazard symbols
Xn Harmful
R-phrase(s)
R10 Flammable.
R22 Harmful if swallowed.
R36/37/38 Irritating to eyes, respiratory system and skin.
S-phrase(s)
S26 In case of contact with eyes, rinse immediately with plenty of water and seek medical
advice.
16. OTHER INFORMATION
Further information
Copyright 2009 Sigma-Aldrich Co. License granted to make unlimited paper copies for internal use only.
The above information is believed to be correct but does not purport to be all inclusive and shall be used
only as a guide. The information in this document is based on the present state of our knowledge and is
applicable to the product with regard to appropriate safety precautions. It does not represent any guarantee
of the properties of the product. Sigma-Aldrich Co., shall not be held liable for any damage resulting from
handling or from contact with the above product. See reverse side of invoice or packing slip for additional
terms and conditions of sale.
Aldrich - 240907 www.sigma-aldrich.com Page 5 of 5